# Timetable-Generator
Web Application for Automatic Timetable generation system using Python

Creating a timetable is an error prone process and takes a lot of time. The current system relies on a lot of manual work required to build or generate a set of timetables, but most often than not there are issues with generating a clash-free and complete timetable. Most academic institutions have resorted to manual generation of their timetables which according to statistics takes much time to complete and this method is not efficient and optimal. This results in students being unable to attend specific courses or having to reschedule their classes / examinations according to the timetable given to them. Therefore, there is a dire need for an application / system distributing the courses properly without needing any students to reschedule their classes. The aim of this project is to develop a simple, easily understandable, efficient and portable application, which could automatically generate a timetable that can be scaled for real world use. 

This program presents an idea of creating a classroom timetable for a university across semesters. The idea is entirely based on the Brute-Force algorithm (Back-Tracking Algorithm). Time-Table generation has always been a tough task as it involves many hard and soft constraints when it comes to manually solving them. To create a timetable, it requires lots of time and manpower. In our project we have tried to reduce these difficulties of generating timetables by using the Brute-Force approach. By using Backtracking Technique we are able to reduce the time required to generate timetables and generate a timetable which is more accurate, precise and free of human errors. The generated time table gives more priority in allocating the slots for labs followed by regular class hours. This system minimizes the time involved in the manual generation of timetables and makes sure the hard and soft constraints that were set by the university are satisfied.
